🚀 Build Instructions (Quickstart)
These instructions assume you are building the OS on a host machine running Ubuntu or Linux Mint.

1. Install Host Prerequisites
Your host system requires bootstrapping tools. Open a terminal and run:

sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y debootstrap squashfs-tools genisoimage curl systemd-container
2. Download the Build Script
Download the latest unified build script (build-os.sh) to your machine.

3. Make the Script Executable
chmod +x build-os.sh
4. Execute the Build
Run the script with root privileges. By default, the script targets Debian stable (rolling automatically to future stable releases).

To build the default version:

Bash
sudo ./build-os.sh use script name in this repository
To build a different Debian branch (e.g., testing or sid):

Bash
sudo ./build-os.sh testing 
use script name in this repository
(The build process typically takes 3 to 15 minutes, depending heavily on your internet connection speed.)

📦 Output and Deployment
Once the script completes successfully, your custom operating system root filesystem is fully assembled and located at:

/opt/custom-debian-os
To turn this directory into a bootable installation medium, you must package it into an ISO image. You can use tools like xorriso or mkisofs to create a bootable ISO (e.g., by adding a standard Debian or Ubuntu live-boot kernel/initramfs and bootloader configuration).

🛡️ Advanced: Hybrid APT Pinning
Because this system mixes Debian core packages with Ubuntu user-space tools, APT pinning is critical.

The build script automatically configures /etc/apt/preferences.d/hybrid-pinning inside the chroot. This configuration enforces that Debian core packages always take precedence (Priority 900) over foreign Ubuntu packages (Priority 100), preventing system library corruption during branch upgrades.

To manually upgrade your system once booted:

Bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt dist-upgrade
🆙 Updating the Canonical Layer
To ensure your drivers, firmware tools, and PPA management utilities stay aligned with the newest upstream releases from Canonical, run the included utility inside your Tartan OS installation:

Bash
sudo upgrade-ubuntu-layer
This tool automatically queries Canonical's servers for the latest release codename (e.g., noble, oracular) and updates your forei
